2019-12-17 BARN Mark4 project meeting notes.

Meeting date: 12/17 9am, ETA studio
	Attendees
		Mike
		Clayton
	
	Agenda Items:
		Design review - 
			The Fusion model is getting closer to being complete. See it in github (https://github.com/BainbridgeArtisanResourceNetwork/Mark4_printer/tree/master/Fusion360_model). Once all fo the core elements of the design are in place, we'll be able finalize enough details to give us confidence in purchasing the parts and raw materials we need to build it. 
			
			We looked at the lastest Fusion model (v45) and made a list of design detaisl where we might want to look at alternatives. No decisions yet on any changes - we need to model the ideas so we can evaluate them. Here's the current list:

				1. Change the belt layout to eliminate one idler pulley on each belt. This will mean that the belt will have less "wrap" on the drive pulley and we'll need to understand from Mark if there was some analysis showing the need for greater wrap.
				2. Should we build the main plate in 3 pieces, vs cutting out of one sheet of Al. This can reduce the raw material cost, but adds some risk of misalignment of the three pieces. 
				3. Should we replace the 4080 extrusions with rectangular Al tubing for cost savings. Need to look at a detailed alternative design and a cost comparison.
				4. Should we switch to larger diameter front pulleys and have the belt wrap around the other side of the Y-axis rails?
				5. Should we switch from NEMA 17 to NEMA 23 motors? The plate is designed for either, but we'll need to decide before we order.
				6. Should we use a three-rail (and stepper) Z axis setup vs the ball-screw?
				7. Can we eliminate the spacer in the current design between the Y-rails and the bridge? This would reduce all the pulley standoffs by ~10mm, but would require some changes to the main plate to allow clearance for the cap-screws that hold the pulleys to the bottom of the bridge.
				8. Should we make the pulley axles at the front corners of the printer adjustable in the X direction? This would make it easy to adjust for different belt thicknesses in the future and retain the required parallelism with the Y-rails.
				9. Should we make adjustments that would allow a motor to be fit where any of the idler pulleys are located? An idea for future resue of the design. 

		
			
			
	Non Agenda items
			
			
			 


PROPOSED DECISION REVIEW
	Based on the new, slowed down process, we are in less hurry on decisions. We're postposing finalizing the proposed decisions (below).



	
DECISIONS PROPOSED AT THIS MEETING (These are actually pending from the 12/03 meeting, and we'll hold until the new year. )
We discussed the following decision points and have recommendations for review by the team. Next action on these (ratification, change, etc) in early January.
	
	Which Extruder/Hotend
		Proposed Decision:
			Extruder - Bondtech BMG-X2 or clone
			Hotend - Mosquito 
		Rationale: 
			Following Mark's recommendation
		Cocnerns:
			After the meeting, pricing these parts helped push us over budget. The dual-material BMG-X2 is $135 from Bondtech and we have not found a clone yet. And the Mosquito hot ends are $144 each. 
		Next Steps:
			Need to review this decision in light of the budget.
			What Material items does this decision allow us to purchase:
				Extruder and hot ends.
		
	Include a tool Changer?
		Proposed Decision:
			Allocate volume in the frame design and build-plate location to allow an E3D/Jubilee style tool changer to be added at a later date.
		Rationale:
			A tool-changer is a great feature, but the budget may not allow it at present.
		Cocnerns:
			We might not allocate enough space. 
		Next Steps:
			Ratify decision.

	Which control board?
		Proposed Decision:
			Duet2 + Paneldu touchscreen (or clone)
		Rationale:
			Mark has agreed to donate a Duet2 to the project, a big savings in the budget.  
		Cocnerns:
			The Duet2 may not have support for an eventual tool-changer, and the Duet3 (which does support a toolchanger) does not use the Paneldu touchscreen. A future upgrade will waste the $100 Paneldu. 
		Next Steps:
			Ratify decision. 
			What Material items does this decision allow us to purchase:
				Paneldu touchscreen.
					


		
NEXT MEETING
	Meeting date: 12/31 9am, ETA studio - NO MEETING 12/24.
	Agenda:
		Fusion Model review.
				
		
	
		