2019-12-03 BARN MArk4 project meeting notes.


PROPOSED DECISION REVIEW
We reviewd proposed decisions from the previous week and ratified all of them. The list of newly ratified decisions is:

	Printer Location  
		Printer will be located near the table under the exhaust hood. Planning to build a rolling wood cart to place the printer on that will place it at a good height for watching first layer prints. Space under printer can be built with one or more drawers for storage of materials.

	Printer Style
		CoreXY wqith lots of leverage from an existing design.
	
	Design leverage
		Make our design a close derivative of the printer Mark McComsey showed us on 11/24. An open issue is that the BOM cost we are currently rolling up is currently ~800 over budget. We are exploring ways to reduce costs and if we cannot find a way in the next week, we plan to recommend the SC change course and purchase a commercial printer before teh budget year expires.
		
	Project Name
		We decided to name the project the Mark$, in honor of the design leverage from Mark's printer (it's his third printer design).
		
	Buiild plate size
		Printable area of 350mm (X) and 350mm (Y)
		
	Part Max Z-height
		Max part size we can build inside Mark's frame design ~400mm.
		
	Enclosure
		Printer will be enclosed, and thermally controlled. Follow Mark's direction, using polycarbonate “greenhouse” panels for sides, front, and top enclosure.
		
	Document repository
		We will use the BARN github (https://github.com/BainbridgeArtisanResourceNetwork) as a repository for the documentation of the project, the design, and the operating manuals for the project. This has been created: https://github.com/BainbridgeArtisanResourceNetwork/Mark4_printer
	
	
DECISIONS PROPOSED AT THIS MEETING
We discussed the following decision points and have recommendations for review by the team. Next action on these (ratification, change, etc) next week.
	
	Which Extruder/Hotend
		Proposed Decision:
			Extruder - Bondtech BMG-X2 or clone
			Hotend - Mosquito 
		Rationale: 
			Following Mark's recommendation
		Cocnerns:
			After the meeting, pricing these parts helped push us over budget. The dual-material BMG-X2 is $135 from Bondtech and we have not found a clone yet. And the Mosquito hot ends are $144 each. 
		Next Steps:
			Need to review this decision in light of the budget.
			What Material items does this decision allow us to purchase:
				Extruder and hot ends.
		
	Include a tool Changer?
		Proposed Decision:
			Allocate volume in the frame design and build-plate location to allow an E3D/Jubilee style tool changer to be added at a later date.
		Rationale:
			A tool-changer is a great feature, but the budget may not allow it at present.
		Cocnerns:
			We might not allocate enough space. 
		Next Steps:
			Ratify decision.

	Which control board?
		Proposed Decision:
			Duet2 + Paneldu touchscreen (or clone)
		Rationale:
			Mark has agreed to donate a Duet2 to the project, a big savings in the budget.  
		Cocnerns:
			The Duet2 may not have support for an eventual tool-changer, and the Duet3 (which does support a toolchanger) does not use the Paneldu touchscreen. A future upgrade will waste the $100 Paneldu. 
		Next Steps:
			Ratify decision. 
			What Material items does this decision allow us to purchase:
				Paneldu touchscreen.
					

OTHER MEETING BUSINESS
	Budget
		At the time of the meeting, we were trending to be over-budget with a partially completed BOM. We were concerned enough that we decided we needed to make completing the BOM and costing the materials a top priority, with the assumption that if we cannot find a way to get the budget under control, we should not risk the available funds and should recommend the SC revisit the decision to not buy a commercial printer.
		
		Post meeting update: We completed a BOM that contains 90+% of the material (we believe) and have initial costing on it. The total material cost is currently $2067. We are going to spend the rest of teh week looking for cost reductions and budget will be the sole agenda item at next week's meeting.
		
NEXT MEETING
	Meeting date: 12/10 9am, ETZ studio
	Agenda:
		BOM cost review
		Decision recommendation on revisiting the make/buy SC decision.
		
		
	
		